Facilitator  0:03  
This is a demo test that I recorded to go along with my book rocket surgery made easy. The main purpose of this demo is just to show you how simple I think usability testing can and should be. In most ways, this demo is exactly like the kind of tests I recommend you do on your own website. The main difference is an actual test would have more tasks or longer tasks. So it would last about an hour instead of 20 minutes. You should know that I didn't choose the site using this demo, because it had a lot of problems. In fact, just the opposite. I like to use well design sites when I do demos, because I think it's important for people to understand that even the best sites always have usability problems. At the end of the demo, I'm going to ask you to list the three most serious usability problems you noticed during the test. And then I'll give you my top three problems, so you can compare your list to mine. So hi, Melanie, my name is Steve. And I'm going to be walking you through this session today, before we get to have some information for you. And I'm going to read it to make sure that I cover everything okay. You probably already have a good idea of why we asked you here, let me go over it again, briefly. We're asking people to try using a website that we're working on. So we can see whether it works as intended. This session today should take about 20 minutes. The first thing I want to make clear right away is that we're testing the site not you can't do anything wrong here. In fact, this is probably one place today where you don't have to worry about making mistakes. And as you use the site, I'm going to ask you as much as possible, to try to think out loud, to say what you're looking at and what you're trying to do and what you're thinking this will be a big help to us. Also, please don't worry that you're going to hurt our feelings. We're doing this to improve the site. So we need to hear your honest reaction. Okay. If you have any questions as we go along, just ask them, I may not be able to answer them right away, since we're interested in how people do when they don't have someone sitting next to them to help. But if you still have any questions when we're done, I'll try to answer them. And then, and if you need to take a break at any point, just let me know, you may have noticed this microphone. With your permission, we're going to record what happens on the screen. And our conversation, that's fine recordings are only going to be used to help us figure out how to improve the site and won't be seen by anyone except the people working on this project. And it helps me because I don't have to take as many notes. Also, there are a few people from the web design team observing this session in another room. They can't see us they can just see the screen, if you would, I'm going to ask you to sign a simple permission form for us. It just says that we have your permission to record you. And that the recording will only be seen by people working on the projects if you don't read it. Go ahead.

Okay. What is today the 16th 17th. You're welcome. So you have any questions so far? No, no? Okay, good. Before we look at the site, I'm going to ask you just a few quick questions first. What's your occupation? What do you do all day?

Participant  3:19  
I am currently unemployed. I volunteer in a kindergarten class. Weekly. I was in healthcare for most of my adult life and health in management, Healthcare Management, and chose to stay home when my son was two. So it's been a long time.

Facilitator  3:35  
Okay. And what did you do in the Healthcare Management?

Participant  3:37  
I work? I managed an admitting office in a hospital. I

supervised a paediatric department Dennett, Derm. Department, I many different things. So

Facilitator  3:49  
So you were adults, but it was paediatrics. And I brought up computer system at one point. Okay, great. And so now in any round hearing in this kindergarten, Yes, I am. And that's been fabulous. Get tags. Go to kindergarten. Yeah, it's good. Okay. All right. Now about the roughly how many hours a week altogether, just a ballpark estimate. Would you say you spend using the internet, including both web browsing and email and working at home? So I'll take all together in a week? ballpark figure so embarrassing. It's never embarrassing. Everybody's people spend a lot of time I'm gonna guess 20 hours a week. Okay. That's not outlandish. That's not work. That's okay. Okay. Okay. And in that time, that 20 hours, what's the split between email and web browsing? Would you say rough percentage, like half and half?

Participant  4:50  
That was probably a high estimate. I would say it's half and half. Okay.

Facilitator  4:55  
My browsing and when you're doing web browsing, what kinds of sites do you look

Participant  4:58  
shopping, shopping. Okay. Mostly shopping, mostly shop are looking for information on thing directions maps, shopping, and check out my crossword puzzle results. Which crossword puzzle that New York Times. Okay. And

Facilitator  5:19  
when you're checking for directions, what sites Google you use Google Maps and any favourite websites, either shopping websites or information websites or whatever any of the particularly like, or use a lot even if you don't like,

Participant  5:33  
not really, you know, I did gift shopping I look I look at jewellery, I look at clothes, I look at whatever I need. Okay. All different, all different sides. Okay. You have any say? Do you think that was the thing that you? Enjoy? Enjoy? That's a good question. No, not really. Not really. Okay.

Facilitator  5:55  
Right. Great. Good. So we're done with question part. Okay. And now we're going to start looking at things on the screen. So I'm going to bring up I'm going to lean in here, excuse me for a second and bring up a website that we're going to look at. And then I'm going to move the microphone so that it's more in front of you than most of the time. And so first, I'm going to ask you to look at this page. And tell me what you make of it. Basically, what strikes you about it, whose site you think it is? What you think you can do here what you think the site is for, just look around and do a little narrative. You can scroll if you want to. You have the mouse over there, but don't click on anything just yet to stay on this page. So just do a little Alright,

Participant  6:42  
so the first thing that was it, I know that it's Zipcar. I know what Zipcar is that I can use this car. But what was initially confusing to me was to see these bows on top of the cars because then I thought I'm buying car Whoa, okay. So that was sort of a little confusing for a second. This tells me what different kinds of cars I can get, I guess, many convertible Molly organises the annual block party, find workers near you. I don't know what that means. Okay. So I would click on that, okay? just yet. Okay. Just stay here. Learn about the simple steps to Zipcar freedom. Okay. So it tells me how to join it tells me what to do, how to use it, okay, how to join how to use it, okay. Zipcar for the iPhone. I have no idea what that means. Okay. Zip current. Yeah, iPhone app. I don't know what that means. what that's about. Okay.

Facilitator  7:41  
Okay, so what's your what's your general feeling of what so you know, you know what soccer is? And you know, this is their site, and you have some idea what they are? And what do you think you kind of think you would do on this site?

Participant  7:52  
I guess I would learn how to get a car. I guess I would learn what cars are available to me. I don't know what that angle block party means. Yeah, and how to do it, basically. Yeah. Like respect. they'll explain the iPhone app to me. Yeah. Yeah.

Okay, thanks. Good. Now, I'm going to ask you to try doing some specific tasks. I'm going to read each one out loud and give you a printed copies. So here's your copy of the first one. And, again, as much as possible to help us if you can try to think out loud, okay, as you go along. So you don't currently own a car. And you can get almost everywhere you need to go without one. You're about to sign up for a class that you can't get to using public transportation. And there are other times when it would be convenient to have a car. A friend has been very happy using Zipcar for occasional trips, so you decided to explore that option. To get to the class, you'd need a car one afternoon a week for about three hours to make a 50 mile round trip. You'd also like to have a car one Saturday a month to run errands all day, figure out what this would cost you each month. Okay? Okay. So now you Alright, so I want to know how much this is going to cost me. Down here I have four simple steps. Over on the right I have how it works. And up in the top bar I Zipcar for me how it works by credit rates and plans. I'm going to hit rates and plans and this is to check rates. Look for your city. I live in Boston. Zipcar cities, I want to push hit Boston. Okay, so it tells me read some plans if you're thinking about joining. This is my Boston personal driving plan. Very nice. Okay, so for an occasional driving plan, it's gonna cost me or it's I want to know how much it's going to cost me each month. It's going to cost me $50 for an annual fee to start and $25 for an application fee. Then my daily rate a weekend rate is different than daily rate. Okay, so weekday hourly rate is $7. And I need that for three hours is three times seven is 21. And then my set one Saturday, a month, one Saturday a month is alright, so that's $79. So, oh, but Okay, so the 21 I have to multiply by four. So it's $84. All right, so my first month is going to cost me so excuse me a second. I have to get rid of this. Don't show that message again. Okay. Okay. All right. 918 816 23, so that my first month is going to cost me $238. Okay, and after the first month, I can subtract $75 because I've already paid my application fee, an annual fee. Okay, so the first day after that, it's going to cost me $163 a month. So the initial month is 238. And the after that it's 163. It would be nice if they had a way for me to do that on their to do what to calculate right on the screen rather than multiplying, but okay. Okay.

Facilitator  11:32  
So what would that be like to? You'd put in what you needed? Yeah. And it would do that?

Participant  11:37  
Yeah. Okay. Not a big deal. But, okay. Okay. All right. So yeah, so $238, the first month, 163 every month after that,

Facilitator  11:51  
okay. All right. Can you take a look around and see if there's anything else that on this page that might be relevant to?

Participant  12:06  
Let's see our most popular plan for new members and first time car shares key plan details, then there's an extra value plan when you join rates shown for ebp $50. I don't know what that means. I have no idea what that means rates shown for extra value plan $50. I have no idea what that means. But But I have no annual fee. While the commitment is a $50 minimum, so I have to spend at least $50 a month for this to to be able to do this. And then it cost me $25 same $25 application fee, but then I get a 10% discount on my on everything I spend. So I guess I would have to figure out if it makes more sense if I drive enough to do this extra value plan or if I do the occasional driving plan. Okay, but I still have no idea with that reach on for ebp $50. I don't know what that means. Okay. All right, good. I don't like not knowing what things mean.

Facilitator  13:16  
Alright, great. So bottom line is you you figured out what it would cost you a month. And there's also this other possibility that you would have to go ahead and do the math, right, figure out whether it was a better deal for you. Okay, right. You feel like you sort of understand what that is. Yeah. Okay. All right. Good. Then I have another task for you to do. Yeah. Okay. And this one is, I'm going to read this without land, which is, you're concerned about whether you'll always be able to get a car when you need one. Find out what Zipcar promises about availability.

Participant  13:54  
Okie dokie. All right, so I'm looking over here this is rates and plans. I don't want this. So I'm going to go back to the top here. Join Zipcar for me how it works, find cars. Well, let me look at find cars. Okay, let's see if that tells me. Well, let's see. This tells me to enter my address to find the nearest zip cars. Find cars by location. Well, this tells me where they are. I don't know if it tells me about availability, but maybe I'll look okay. Find cars by location. All right. enter my address or choose my neighbourhood touches my neighbourhood. Let's see if they have my neighbourhood

Unknown Speaker  14:54  
Brookline.

Unknown Speaker  14:55  
All right, we'll put in Brookline. Okay.

Participant  15:01  
And this shows me where all the zip cars are and how many of them are available meet the cars. Alright, so now I'm looking at a map, which is a big old map, let me find my neighbourhood. How are you thinking to do that? This is a little map, I've got to go up or down and I'm trying to figure out where I am. And I think I'm down here. So we'll hit the little arrow that takes me down.

Unknown Speaker  15:44  
Okay.

Participant  15:46  
But I'm not seeing anything here in my neighbourhood, but it's so Brookline. I live in Brookline. But I don't see anything. All the little

markers saying that there are cars there. I live in South Brookline, but it's not telling me. So it's not showing me anything on this map. Okay. Okay, yeah, I don't know. I'm gonna go back here and see if I can put in South Brooklyn and see if anything comes up. Okay. If they have it on here, they do not. Oh, well. Maybe I'll put in my address. Okay.

Okay, let's see what that comes up there. Okay. All right. So now it shows me where exactly shows my house with a little smiling red balloon, and then a few blocks away, it shows me where the zip car is. And I'm gonna click on that zip car. And it says it's got a muckraker Mazda for 925 an hour, or $69 a day, which is a different rate than what they told me on the original rate page, so I'm confused about that. You expect it to be the same rate expected to be the same rate. And I actually don't like that when that happens. And I often that's sometimes my frustration point when I'm on a site, and I just leave because I feel like I don't trust this whole thing. And I don't know what they're doing and they're ripping me off. Okay, so I go away.

Facilitator  17:37  
Alright, can we try? kalkwasser? Can we go back to the specific task again, and see if you can figure out what they promise you about? No, no, that was very good. Okay, that was pretty good. I just wanna see if you can find an answer to that specific question about whether you're always you're always going to be able to get a car.

Participant  17:58  
I'm going to look at a Zipcar for me. And I'm looking scanning down to see I don't want to cute corner match my shoes. It's not what I'm looking for.

It's interesting, Zipcar. For me, I like I take public transportation, but I need a car sometimes. That doesn't tell me if it's let's see how it works. No, reserve, I'm going to click on reserve which is the four simple steps let's see what that tells me. You can do it online or over the phone, choose the car you want. Choose the timeslot you want it the location, you want reserve minutes or month in advance. But that doesn't tell me exactly. It says I can do minutes in advance for what does that mean? Is it always available frequently asked questions, perhaps. Alright, how do I join What can I drive the same day I joined? How do I reserve a car? Okay, let's look at that. Now just tell us how to reserve it. Well, well, well, reserving zipcars Okay, up here on the top, under questions is reserving zipcars Okay. Will car be available when I want one? Okay. It's natural for new members to worry. Half of all reservations are made same day we monitor utilisation closely, keeping availability high. Even if the zip code right around the corner isn't available, you still be able to reserve on located only few blocks away, says it's always going to be available. That's what it's telling me. Okay, but what do you think What? What's your? My sense is that I would like something much more specific. That might not be available.

Unknown Speaker  20:18  
Okay, yeah. All right.

Facilitator  20:22  
Perfect. That's exactly what we needed. Okay. And do you have any questions for me? ever done? I don't know. All right, terrific. Thanks so much for coming in today. And we'll get you your, your honorarium and. And that's it. Thanks very much. You're quite welcome. Okay. Now you've watched the test, try making a list of the three most serious usability problems that this user encounters. Try to pick the three you'd most want to fix if it was your site. Pause the video for a minute, make your list. When you're done, start it up again. And I'll give you my list. Here are the three problems i saw that i think it was most important to fix. The user had no problem figuring out the basic idea of the extra value plans, that you get lower rates if you make a monthly commitment. But she was completely stumped by the phrase rate shown for MVP $50. And she didn't realise that it meant that there was more than one plan. The user didn't feel like she got a satisfying answer about whether she'd always be able to get a car when she wanted one. In her words, it says it's always going to be available. My sense is that I'd like something much more specific than it might not be available. Near the end of the session, the user was surprised to see that the car available in her neighbourhood would cost her more than she thought it would, based on what she'd seen the rates page. She even said that this might make her distressed the whole site and leave. Rates page actually does use the word from the indicate to the prices shown are minimums. But from is on the left side of the column, and the prices are on the right. Those are the three that struck me as most important, but there were certainly others that you might have had on your list. For instance, this user didn't notice the extra value plans until I prompted her. This didn't make my top three lists, though, because I suspect that if I let her continue a little longer, she would have noticed them on her own. And actual test, I probably wouldn't have prompted her as soon as I did. But I wanted to keep the demo short. You might have thought that it was a problem that it took her so long to find the answer to the question about availability, I get to but I wouldn't consider it one of the most serious problems. Because she did find the information more or less where she expected to even if it did take her longer than it probably should have. us he did have to do a lot of math to figure out how much Zipcar would cost her. But he didn't put it on my top three list after watching this particular session. Because while it might be a problem for some users, it didn't seem to be a problem for her. I'd be watching to see if other participants in the same round of testing had trouble with it though. Whatever you had on your list, don't worry if it was different from mine. The point of this exercise wasn't to come up with definitive answers. It was just to give you a feel for the process of identifying the problems. The only people who can come up with a definitive answers about what should be fixed on a site are the people actually working on that site. While we're at it, I'd like to show you how I might try fixing two of these problems. Just to give you an example of what I mean by doing the least you can do. As I described in the book, I think it's always best to try to find the simplest solution you can for usability problems, to try tweaking first and only turn to redesign if tweaking doesn't do the job. For instance, take the problem the user had with the phrase rates shown for PvP $50. I try getting rid of the phrase and adding tabs for the for plans instead. That way, it's clear that what you're looking at in the right hand panel is the rates for one of the four available plans. The other tweak might solve the problem with the user not realising that the hourly and daily rates were minimums. Just moving the word from close to the dollar amount would make it hard to myth.

Well, let's it I hope this video has helped convince you that usability testing doesn't have to be complicated to produce a lot of useful insights. By the end of reading the book or not. I hope it encourages you to do some testing on your own website. You're also welcome to download the script that I use for testing at rocket surgery Made Easy calm

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
